## Thorax

- *Current weight* 36kb gzipped
  - Using Zepto
  - Swapping Handlebars for runtime during build
  - Would CommonJS modules make it smaller?
- Even less boilerplate than Marionette
  - Automatically fetch model/collection on render
- Less primitives than Marionette, but more explicit in decision making around how components should be used
  - Routers are clearly designed to be controllers
  - Still supports collection views and layouts, a serious pain point for standard Backbone.
- `{{#link }}` is super handy, but breaks right/meta clicks.
  - I should fix this, if I have the time
- Loading states and rendering states are handlebars helpers. This makes it easy to manage preloading and other "not ready" states.
- Entire system feels very cohesive and tight. It was very trivial to make the basic blog example, with push state passing between views.
- Documentation clearly spells out API, but usage is pretty blurry. The [yeoman generator](https://github.com/walmartlabs/generator-thorax) helps a lot with this.

### Server Side Generation

Right now I can only really go so far as to scrape DOM hooks generated by `{{#link}}`. There appears to be some work over at Walmart Labs, but nothing has been open sourced.

### Links
- http://thoraxjs.org/
- http://vimeo.com/60230630

### TODO

- Better server-side rendering is probably possible. More time should be spent here.
- Explore client-side storage. The [localforage](https://github.com/mozilla/localForage) driver for Backbone is super cool, but doesn't fallback to standard sync if the data doesn't exist yet. Consider implementing a work around.

To gain access to the console and debugging tools provided by Chrome, click on the `Debug` button at the top of the window booted by karma. Within here you'll have full access to your Thorax application, even though the page itself is white.

### Production

** Run `grunt production`**

When your ready to build concatenated and minified versions of your css and JavaScript source run `grunt production`. The output can be found in `dist/` and a browser window will be booted so you can play with the production version of your application before deployment.

#### Test Your Production Build in Multiple Browsers

** Run `grunt deploy`**

Before deploying your application run `grunt deploy` to run your tests against the built version of your application inside the following browsers:

- Chrome
- Firefox
- Safari
- PhantomJS

To test your application in IE you'll need a Windows box. Run `npm install karma-ie-launcher --save-dev` and add `IE` to the array of browsers within the deploy task inside `tasks/options/karma.js`. However, using [Sauce Labs](https://saucelabs.com/) in conjunction with the [Karma Sauce Launcher](https://github.com/karma-runner/karma-sauce-launcher) is the recommended and effective solution to this common problem.

#### Phantom JS with Karma or Mocha-PhantomJS

If you prefer to manually run your tests via the command line during development every generated app also provides to ways to accomplish this:

- `grunt test` will run your tests with Phantom JS via karma
- `grunt test-mocha-phantomjs` will run your tests with [Mocha PhantomJS](https://github.com/metaskills/mocha-phantomjs), which also outputs to your terminal but provides a nicer UI than Karma in a format that reads like documentation, similar to what you'll find in the browser window when running `grunt` or when running mocha tests in node js.

#### Continuous Integration with Travis CI

**Use github, flip on Travis CI switch**

If you host your application as a repo on github(public or private), you can optionally turn on Travis CI support. Every application is generated with a `.travis.yml` file, so once the switch has been turned on, it'll work out of the box.

## Deployment

Every generated application comes setup ready to deploy to either Heroku and/or nodejitsu.

**To deploy to heroku:**

1. Make sure you have the [Heroku Toolbelt](https://toolbelt.heroku.com/) installed and you have logged into your account via `heroku login`.
2. Build your app: `grunt production`. This will output a minified version of your app to `dist/` which heroku will serve up.
3. Make sure you have committed your changes to git:
    - `git add .`
    - `git commit -m "commit message here"`
4. Run `heroku create` from the command line.
5. Run `git push heroku master`
6. Run `heroku open` to see your app live on the web!

Note: During deployment run `foreman start` to test your application. Open your browser to port `5000` to view your app.

**To deploy to nodejitsu:**

1. Install the tool: `npm install jitsu -g`
2. Create an account: `jitsu signup`
3. Login: `jitsu login`
4. Build your application: `grunt production`
5. Deploy: `jitsu deploy`

That's it. Your `package.json` file already has a `scripts` option named `start` that nodejitsu will use to boot the application.

### CoffeeScript Support

Out of the box all generators can optionally output CoffeeScript.

When generating a new application, the generator will simply ask you if you want CoffeeScript or JavaScript and act accordingly by outputting the generated application with the files of the chosen format.

Running a sub generator, like `yo thorax:router`, will look for the presence of at least one `.coffee` file within `js/` and choose whether to output CoffeeScript or JavaScript accordingly.

To force CoffeeScript output, append `--coffee` to any of the following commands.

To force JavaScript output, append `--js` to any of the following commands.

##### Requiring a CoffeeScript Module

Regardless of what a generator outputs, `.coffee` files are always supported out of the box.

To require a CoffeeScript module instead of a JavaScript module simply prefix the module name with `cs!`. For example: (inside a JavaScript module or CoffeeScript module)

```js
  require(['cs!my-module'], function(myModule) { ... })
```

Prefixing a module name with `cs!` will compile the CoffeeScript file on the fly removing the need for pre-compilation during development.

When creating a production build with `grunt production` however, the r.js optimizer will pre-compile the CoffeeScript files to JavaScript before doing concatenation and minification.

### Handlebars Support

Similar to how CoffeeScript files are compiled on the fly using the `cs!` Require JS plugin, Handlebars files ending in `.hbs` also benefit from not having to run through a compile phase.

To require a handlebars template for use in a view, prefix the name of the module with `hbs!`. For example, inside a view or collection view:

```js
  require(['hbs!my-template'], function(template) { ... })
```

Handlebars files will be treated as JavaScript templates therefore leave off the trailing `.hbs` when requiring a template within a view or collection-view.

One current caveat with this approach is that the `template` option within a view or collection-view will always need to be manually set.

## Generators

### Application Generator:

Generate a new Thorax Application using the software stack mentioned above:

```sh
$ yo thorax app-name
```

### Sub Generators:

Use these within an existing Thorax application:

```sh
$ yo thorax:router name
$ yo thorax:view name
$ yo thorax:model name
$ yo thorax:collection name
$ yo thorax:collection-view name
```

The `name` argument may include a directory path, such as `todo-list/index`:

```sh
$ yo thorax:router todo-list
$ yo thorax:view todo-list/index
```

## From Zero to Todos

### Install the generator

```sh
$ npm install -g yo generator-thorax
```

### Generate your application

```sh
$ yo thorax todo-list
[?] Would you like to generate the app in a new directory? Yes
[?] Choose a css pre-processor: (Use arrow keys)
    ❯ Less with bootstrap (default choice)
      Sass
      Stylus
      Plain CSS
[?] Would you like to use CoffeeScript? No
[?] Would you like to use Zepto in place of jQuery (Zepto is best for mobile apps)
[?] Would you like to setup your project with a sample application? (Use arrow keys)
      Hello World
      Todo List
    ❯ None
```

...and then `$ cd todo-list`.

Note that had you chosen `Todo List` for the sample application above, you would have generated the completed version of the app we're about to build. You may want to do this when we're finished to check your work.

### Sub Generators

A sub-generator is a generator that you use within your app, after it has been initially created.

Both application and test files are output from all sub-generators and CoffeeScript files will be output in place of JS files if one or more CoffeeScript files are present within your application. To override this settings pass `--js` or `--coffee` at the end any sub-generator command.

In the following section, we'll build a Todo App using sub-generators. Note that test files will be omitted for brevity.

##### Generate a View:

```sh
$ yo thorax:view todo-list/index
```

This generates two new files, a view and a matching template:

```sh
create js/views/todo-list/index.js
create js/templates/todo-list/index.hbs
```

`views/todo-list/index.js` should contain the following code:

```js
define([
 'view',
 'hbs!templates/todo-list/index' // IMPORTANT, prefix with hbs! when requiring a template
], function (View, template) {
 return View.extend({
   name: 'todo-list/index',
   template: template  // passed as `template` arg above, must be set
  });
});
```

Had we been using CoffeeScript in our application the output would instead look like:

```cs
define [
  'cs!view', # IMPORTANT, prefix with cs! when requiring a module written in CS
  'hbs!templates/todo-list/index'
], (View, template) ->
  View.extend
    name: 'todo-list/index'
    template: template
```

Those familiar with RequireJS will be thrilled to see the define() call above, and those who aren't should read the [section about require js](#require-js)for short summary.

##### Generate a Router:

```sh
$ yo thorax:router todo-list
```

This will generate one new file...

```sh
create js/routers/todo-list.js
```

...into which the following code will be inserted:

```js
define([
  'backbone'
  'views/root',
], function (Backbone, RootView) {
  return Backbone.Router.extend({  //plain Backbone. Thorax doesn't touch the router.
    routes: {
    }
  });
});
```

Now that we have our files, we can start editing them. Let's first get something up on the screen. We'll add our index route to `js/routers/todo-list.js`, and an `index` function Backbone will fire for us when that route is hit. Inside of that function we'll create an instance of our view, which we'll be able to access because we've passed it into scope by way of the dependencies array...

```js
define([
  'backbone',  //included because we're calling the Backbone object below. While Backbone depends on Underscore, we wouldn't pass that in unless we were going to use "_" inside of our callback.
  'views/root',  //this is what's going to get attached to the DOM. More on that soon.
  'views/todo-list/index'  //this is the view class we're going to instantiate below...
], function (Backbone, RootView, TodoListIndexView) {  //...but to make it available we're going to need to add it and pass it into our callback, here we've named it TodoListIndexView
  return Backbone.Router.extend({
    routes: {
      "": "index" //add an index route
    },
    index: function(){
      var view = new TodoListIndexView({})  //Hey! I'm a view getting instantiated! My template will be rendered
      RootView.getInstance().setView(view)  //Nuke whatever was in the {{layout-element}} element in root.hbs (and do memory management), replace it with the template rendered by the line above.
    }
  });
});
```

...and then give `templates/todo-list/index.handlebars` something to render:

```html
<p> Arrrr! I'm a pirate with a handlebar mustache. </p>
```

Finally, edit `js/main.js`. To the list of dependencies required by this module, add `'routers/todo-list'`. Add it before `'helpers'`. Also make sure to inject the dependency into the module as an argument to the factory function. Then instantiate the router inside the initialize function, before calling `next();`.

The final changes should look like:

```javascript
  require([
    'jquery',
    'backbone',
    'views/root',
    'routers/todo-list', // ADDED
    'helpers',
  ], function ($, Backbone, RootView, TodoListRouter) { // MODIFIED

    initialize(function(next) {
      new TodoListRouter(); // ADDED
      next();
    });

    ...snip...
```

##### Run `grunt` to build and view your application

Now that we have something on screen, let's get some data on the screen and finish the rest of our todo list.

##### Render a Collection

To implement a todo list, we need to create a collection and set it on the view. Unlike a `Backbone.View` instance, a `Thorax.View` instance does not have an `options` object. All properties passed to the constructor are set on the instance and also become available inside of the handlebars template. We'll now update `js/routers/todo-list.js`...

```js
define([
  'backbone',
  'collection',  // ADDED
  'views/root',
  'views/todo-list/index'
], function(Backbone, Collection, RootView, TodoListIndexView) {  //and also add the 'Collection' arg here
  return Backbone.Router.extend({
    routes: {
      "": "index"
    },
    index: function() {
      var collection = new Collection([{  //here we instantiate the collection and populate it with a single model with two properties, 'title' and 'done'
        title: 'First Todo',
        done: true
      }]);
      var view = new TodoListIndexView({
        collection: collection  //here we set the 'collection' property of our view to the collection we just instantiated
      });
      RootView.getInstance().setView(view);
    }
  });
});
```

To display the collection we will edit `templates/todo-list/index.hbs` and use the `collection` handlebars helper to loop through each model in the collection:

```html
{{#collection}}
    render the code between the opening and
    closing collection tags for each model
    in the collection
{{/collection}}
```

Beautifully, all of the properties of the associated model are available in the helpers (see `{{title}}` below).  A `tag` option may be specified to define what type of HTML tag will be used when creating the collection element:

```html
{{#collection tag="ul"}}
  <li>{{title}}</li>
{{/collection}}
```

Since we want to be able to mark our todos as done and add new ones, we will add a checkbox to each item in the collection and a form to make new items at the bottom. Our `templates/todo-list/index.hbs` should now look like:

```html
{{#collection tag="ul"}}
  <li {{#done}}class="done"{{/done}}>
    <input type="checkbox" {{#done}}checked{{/done}}>
    {{title}}
  </li>
{{/collection}}
<form>
  <input name="title">
  <input type="submit" value="Add">
</form>
```

We'll also create a style sheet called `stylesheets/todo-list.css`, which will be automatically applied ONLY to the view with the same filename. Populate it with the following code:

```css
.done {
  text-decoration: line-through;
}
```

View Behaviors
--------------
In order to add new items to the list we should listen to the `submit` event on `form` elements in our view. We can use the events hash in `js/views/todo-list/index.js`:

```js
events{
    "submit form": function(event) {
      event.preventDefault();
      var attrs = this.serialize();
      this.collection.add(attrs);
      this.$('input[name="title"]').val('');
    }
}
```

The `serialize` method will return key value pairs of all attributes in form elements on the page. Since we had an input with a name of `title` attrs will be set to: `{title: "your todo"}`. When using the `collection` helper or a `CollectionView`, Thorax adds, removes and updates views in the collection as appropriate. When we `add` a new model to the collection the view will automatically update.

```js
'change input[type="checkbox"]': function(event) {
  var model = $(event.target).model();
  model.set({done: event.target.checked});
}
```

We also need to listen for a change in a checkbox so we can mark a model as done. Thorax extends the jQuery or Zepto `$` object with three methods: `$.view`, `$.model` and `$.collection`. They will retrieve closest bound object to an element. In this case, a model was automatically bound to the `li` tag passed into the `collection` helper in the template. Now that we have a reference to the `model` we can update it and the view will automatically update.

Our finished `js/views/todo-list/index.js` file should look like:

```js
define([
  'view',
  'templates/todo-list/index'
], function(View, template) {
  return View.extend({
    name: "todo-list/index",
    template: template,
    events: {
      "submit form": function(event) {
        event.preventDefault();
        var attrs = this.serialize();
        this.collection.add(attrs);
        this.$('input[name="title"]').val('');
      },
      'change input[type="checkbox"]': function(event) {
        var model = $(event.target).model();
        model.set({done: event.target.checked});
      }
    }
  });
});
```

And that's a finished non-persistent todo list application! For more complex examples and tutorials using the thorax framework, see the [tutorials on the Thorax homepage](http://thoraxjs.org)

## Require JS

Instead of compiling requiring script tags in your HTML, Require JS is used to load AMD modules instead of plain JavaScript files.

### Adding a New Dependency to Your App

To add a new library to your app. Here are the steps:

1. Install the library via bower by running `bower install library-name --save-dev`. If the library is not updated regularly from bower try pointing the version to a github tag, for example: `"library-name": "some-github-profile/library-name#v0.1"` inside of your `bower.json` file.
2. Open `require-config.js` at the root of your application and add a `path` that points the the AMD module version of the library installed by bower. If the library does not have an AMD module version(many don't) you'll need to setup a `shim` settings, which tells Require JS to wrap a normal JS file as a module you can require. Also make sure to set the `deps` array for any libraries the library depends on. For an example, take a look at how Thorax itself is setup within `require-config.js`.
3. Inside an existing or new module, require the library by adding an item to the array of required modules - the name you'll use here is the name of the `path` you setup in step 2 above. Then, pass a new argument into the callback function, name the argument whatever you'd like, but remember that uppercase names should be reserved for modules that export constructor functions. When all the modules that this module depends on resolve, the callback function will be called and the argument representing the exported object from the module will be available for use inside.

For in depth information on Require JS make sure to check out [http://requirejs.org/](http://requirejs.org/).
